Recently, there has been talk about the possibility of IE University, and many others adapting their exam rules. This possible adaptation during an academic term is not due to mass cheating but to a change in technology, they believe, makes the current way of doing things no longer sustainable. Currently, many exams are open book meaning that students are able to consult their notes, the professors’ slides and… the internet. With the advent of AI services capable of writing entire essays and answering any question, it is normal to question this way of doing things. However, simply banning us from using any sort of technical advantage is not the way to go.

<br>ChatGPT, this new AI tool which seemed to emerge from nowhere and completely change the way we see AI, poses a complicated question for educators. This question is more than just should it be banned or not, but rather: how to teach pupils to use it correctly. 

<br>According to data from Katharina Buchholz, ChatGPT got to 1 million users faster than any other service ever has before. This not only shows its punctual popularity, but also that people saw value in it and that it was not just going to be a brief fad before disappearing again. Putting AI back in the box is going to be very hard and counterproductive. We are going to have to learn to incorporate it into our workflows and how we study.

<br>Banning services like ChatGPT would be an ineffective half measure: As we’ve seen many times in the past, in all sorts of context, banning something only makes people want to use it more. Equally, just making us have closed book exams is no longer representative of the real world and does not test the things schools should be testing.

<br>We now live in a world where everyone is connected all the time. All but a few countries have internet and of those, many have high speed, reliable internet connections meaning that wherever you are, you always have access to every bit of information humanity has ever created. This however has been the case for many years now. Ever since the creation of the World Wide Web, this has been the case. ChatGPT is just the next step.

ChatGPT is in some ways no more than just a search engine that is capable of understanding the question you ask it and giving you an answer that actually answers it. Its implementation into the Bing search engine improves on this. It is able to give fully cited, accurate answers to any question, and this to a level that can rival humans. It is though only one of many AI tools. There are many others that can (and will) change our way of doing assignments even more.  

There are though problems with all of these services: their complete confidence in their answers. Often these chatbots will make a claim and assert it as true and irrefutable when, upon further research, it becomes evident that it is not the case. But this extra step of proofing everything is one we need to be taught to take. We need to be taught to properly use these services if we want to truly optimise them. Similarly to when computers started to become common place in the work place and being able to use them was a marketable skill, being able to use AI tools properly will be one as well. 

Banning us from being able to use these services would leave us behind the curve, and for a university who promotes technology in learning and in the workplace, it would be counterproductive. Empowering us with the knowledge necessary to truly utilise this new technology will make us stand out on the job market and will teach us all, students, faculty and staff, how the unknown should not be feared but should be learnt as the captain of the USS Enterprise, Capt. James T. Kirk, stated “there’s no such thing as the unknown – only things temporarily hidden, temporarily not understood”.

ChatGPT is a remarkable service that has the potential to be as revolutionising as the enigma machine was. It brings us to a new level of thinking. It is now up to us to learn to use it and not to ignore it. 

